README.md, before:

# <img width="800" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/3b8dcf5b-1997-4c90-b8c0-f9382431c53c" />


A small and lightweight python application that provides Discord notifications when streamers go live but only when they're not streaming certain categories.

Should help you avoid enduring the painful react section of certain streamers.

👉 Only sends you one notification a day, per streamer, whenever the streamer streams a non blacklisted category.

👉 Can handle as many streamers as you like, each with a personalized list of blocked categories.

## 💻 Running from source
- Clone the repo
- Set the environment variables (see docker-compose below)
- ```pip install --no-cache-dir -r requirements.txt```
- ```python3 scheduler.py``` 

## ⚙️ Running from Docker (recommended)

Install docker using your favorite package manager on Linux or use Docker Desktop on Windows

### docker-compose.yml

``` yaml
services:
  twitch-notifier:
    image: damastah/twitch-notifier:latest
    container_name: twitch-notifier
    environment:
      TWITCH_CLIENT_ID: <Create a twitch application and provide the client ID>
      TWITCH_CLIENT_SECRET: <Provide the associated application secret>
      DISCORD_WEBHOOK_URL: <Create a discord webhook on the channel where you want the notifications posted and set it here>
      CHECK_INTERVAL_MINUTES: 1
      STREAMERS_CONFIG: [{"name":"quin69","blocked_categories":["Just Chatting","Special Events","Dogshit game"]},{"name":"streamer2","blocked_categories":["Just Chatting","Category 2","Category 3"]}]
      TZ: Europe/Paris
    volumes:
      - data:/app/data
    restart: unless-stopped

volumes:
  data:
```

## 🔧 Step-by-Step: Get Twitch Client ID & Secret

- Log into Twitch Dev Console 👉 https://dev.twitch.tv/console
- Create a New Application
- Click “+ Register Your Application”
- Fill out the form:
  - Name: Anything you like (e.g., TwitchNotifier)
  - OAuth Redirect URL: Just put http://localhost (not used for this app, but required)
  - Category: Choose Application Integration
  - Click Create
- Copy Your Credentials
- After creation, click on your app. You'll see:
  - Client ID — copy this to TWITCH_CLIENT_ID
  - Click "New Secret" to generate your Client Secret
  - Copy this to TWITCH_CLIENT_SECRET

## 🔧 Step-by-Step: Create a Discord Webhook

- Open Discord and go to the server and channel where you want notifications.
- Go to Channel Settings : Hover over the channel → Click the gear icon
- Go to “Integrations” > “Webhooks”
- Click "Create Webhook"
  - Name it something like TwitchNotifier
  - Optionally, upload an avatar (e.g., Twitch logo)
- Copy the Webhook URL (This URL will look like: https://discord.com/api/webhooks/xxxxxxxx/yyyyyyyy)
- Add it under DISCORD_WEBHOOK_URL=...

## 🤖 Autogenerated docker images (amd64 and arm64)
https://hub.docker.com/r/damastah/twitch-notifier

## ☕ Buy me a coffee :)
https://ko-fi.com/realabitbol

Commit message:

config file handling, improved readme, linting

README.md, after:

# <img width="800" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/3b8dcf5b-1997-4c90-b8c0-f9382431c53c" />

A small and lightweight python application that provides Discord notifications when streamers go live but only when they're not streaming certain categories.

Should help you avoid enduring the painful react section of certain streamers.

👉 Only sends you one notification a day, per streamer, whenever the streamer streams a non blacklisted category.

👉 Can handle as many streamers as you like, each with a personalized list of blocked categories.

## 💻 Running from source

- Clone the repository ```git clone https://github.com/realAbitbol/twitch-notifier.git```
- Install ```python3```
- Create a ```config.ini``` file with your desired settings (see config.ini.example)
- ```pip install -r requirements.txt```
- ```python3 main.py```

## ⚙️ Running from Docker (recommended)

Install docker using your favorite package manager on Linux or use Docker Desktop on Windows

### docker-compose.yml

``` yaml
services:
  twitch-notifier:
    image: damastah/twitch-notifier:latest
    container_name: twitch-notifier
    environment:
      TWITCH_CLIENT_ID: <Create a twitch application and provide the client ID>
      TWITCH_CLIENT_SECRET: <Provide the associated application secret>
      DISCORD_WEBHOOK_URL: <Create a discord webhook on the channel where you want the notifications posted and set it here>
      CHECK_INTERVAL_MINUTES: 1
      STREAMERS_CONFIG: [{"name":"quin69","blocked_categories":["Just Chatting","Special Events","Dogshit game"]},{"name":"streamer2","blocked_categories":["Just Chatting","Category 2","Category 3"]}]
      TZ: Europe/Paris
    volumes:
      - data:/app/data
    restart: unless-stopped

volumes:
  data:
```

## 🔧 Step-by-Step: Get Twitch Client ID & Secret

- Log into Twitch Dev Console 👉 <https://dev.twitch.tv/console>
- Create a New Application
- Click ```+ Register Your Application```
- Fill out the form:
  - Name: Anything you like (e.g., ```TwitchNotifier```)
  - OAuth Redirect URL: Just put ```http://localhost``` (not used for this app, but required)
  - Category: Choose ```Application Integration```
  - Click Create
- Copy Your Credentials
- After creation, click on your app. You'll see:
  - Client ID — copy this to ```TWITCH_CLIENT_ID```
  - Click ```New Secret``` to generate your Client Secret
  - Copy this to ```TWITCH_CLIENT_SECRET```

## 🔧 Step-by-Step: Create a Discord Webhook

- Open Discord and go to the server and channel where you want notifications.
- Go to Channel Settings : Hover over the channel → Click the gear icon
- Go to ```Integrations``` > ```Webhooks```
- Click ```Create Webhook```
  - Name it something like ```TwitchNotifier```
  - Optionally, upload an avatar (e.g., Twitch logo)
- Copy the Webhook URL (This URL will look like: ```https://discord.com/api/webhooks/xxxxxxxx/yyyyyyyy```
- Add it under ```DISCORD_WEBHOOK_URL=...```

## 🤖 Autogenerated docker images (amd64 and arm64)

<https://hub.docker.com/r/damastah/twitch-notifier>

## ☕ Buy me a coffee :)

<https://ko-fi.com/realabitbol>
